Broadly, ELCs or equal loudness contours are graphs that allow you to view, for different frequencies, how high sound pressure level must be to achieve an equal/constant amount of perceived loudness for a human listener. This is necessary because perceived loudness is not the same for all frequencies using a constant sound pressure level. This is due to the shape/resonance of the ear canal itself, which increases sensitivity for part of the midrange of upper frequencies. As a result, we need a higher sound pressure level to hear frequencies at the same loudness if they are outside this range.

To read ELC graphs, the x axis plots frequency values and the y axis plots sound pressure level, which is measured in decibels (dB) sound pressure level (SPL). Importantly, dB SPL measures the real, physical amplitude (not perception). In an ELC graph, many lines are drawn, with each representing a single loudness value, also known as a "phon." Following this line across the frequency axis, we can see how the sound pressure level must fluctuate to maintain the same phon. Additionally, phon is used as a unit where any curve in phons is equal to its dB SPL level at 1 kHz.

ISO 226 stands for "International Organization Standardization" 226, and it is the international standard for what "normal" ELCs of pure tones in human listeners look like. In this case, normal just means subjects in good, regular health with no signs of hearing problems (otologically normal). The ISO 226 curves are essentially a modernized version of the original Fletcher-Munson curves discussed in class.

To develop these ELCs, ISO aggregated data from young adults in several different countries. ISO did binaural tests, which means using both ears at the same time, in a "free progressive plane wave," which means that the audio origin was directly in front of the listener without any barriers that could cause reflections. In the test, participants compare and report perceived loudness given two, paired tones. The tones are adjusted in SPL until they match the same perceived loudness. This results in the ELC curves reported in ISO 226.

This broadly, is how ISO 226 and ELCs more generally work. ELCs, and especially the ISO 226 standard, have a lot of applications for topics like audio engineering, music mixing, or even safety. For example, audio equalizers can leverage ELCs so that high and low frequencies are still audible to a human listener if you're watching a movie or listening to music.


